# Exploratory Data Analysis of E-commerce Sales

This repository contains an exploratory data analysis (EDA) of e-commerce sales data using Python. The goal of this analysis is to gain insights and understand the patterns and trends within the sales data.

## Dataset

The dataset used for this analysis is the E-commerce Sales dataset, which consists of various features related to sales transactions. The dataset includes information such as order dates, customer details, order quantities, prices, and other relevant information.

## Requirements

To run the analysis, you need to have the following dependencies installed:

- Python (version 3.x)
- Jupyter Notebook
- Pandas
- Matplotlib
- Seaborn

You can install the required dependencies using the following command:

```
pip install jupyter pandas matplotlib seaborn
```

## Files

- `E-commerce Sales Analysis.ipynb`: This Jupyter Notebook contains the Python code for the exploratory data analysis. It includes data cleaning, visualization, and various statistical analyses to explore the sales data.
- `ecommerce_sales_report.csv`: This CSV file contains the raw data used for the analysis.

## Usage

1. Clone this repository to your local machine or download the files manually.
2. Open the Jupyter Notebook `E-commerce Sales Analysis.ipynb` using Jupyter Notebook or any compatible environment.
3. Run the cells in the notebook sequentially to execute the analysis step-by-step.
4. Explore the visualizations and findings generated by the analysis.

## Analysis Steps

The EDA covers the following main steps:

1. Data Loading: Load the dataset into a Pandas DataFrame.
2. Data Cleaning: Handle missing values, data types, and any inconsistencies in the data.
3. Data Exploration: Explore the dataset using descriptive statistics and visualizations to understand the overall sales trends, customer behavior, and product 
4. Summary and Conclusion: Summarize the key findings from the analysis and draw conclusions.

## Results

The analysis aims to uncover various insights into the e-commerce sales data. These insights may include:

- Overall sales trends, such as which state has maximum orders, order is for B2B or retailer.
- Customer behavior, including the number of customers, their demographics, and purchasing patterns.
- Product preferences, such as the most popular products, categories, or sizes.

The results of the analysis will be presented in the Jupyter Notebook, along with visualizations and explanations.

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. If you have any suggestions, improvements, or additional analyses that could enhance the exploration of e-commerce sales data, feel free to submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Feel free to use, modify, or distribute the code and analysis as per the terms of the license.

## Contact

If you have any questions or inquiries about this exploratory data analysis, please feel free to contact Aditya Singh at adi2001.mahan@gmail.com.

Happy analyzing!
